packages/cloudquery-tables/README.md, before:

# CloudQuery tables
This directory lists all tables collected with CloudQuery.
We do not collect tables by [wildcard matching](https://docs.cloudquery.io/docs/advanced/performance-tuning#use-wildcard-matching) 
to avoid automatically collecting any new tables introduced in a plugin update as this could dramatically increase our usage[^1].

## Adding a new table
To start collecting a new table:
1. Ensure the table is available in the version (see [`.env`](../../.env)) of the CloudQuery plugin used
2. Add the table to [`index.ts`](./src/index.ts)
3. Update or create a task to collect the table

> [!NOTE]
> There are unit tests checking only the tables listed in [`index.ts`](./src/index.ts) are collected.

## Removing a table
Before removing a table, ensure it is not used by any dashboards or other processes.

To stop collecting a table:
1. Remove the table from [`index.ts`](./src/index.ts)
2. Remove the table from the task that collected it
3. Add a database migration to drop the table from the database

[^1]: Per our contract, we have a finite number of rows that can be synced each month.

## Updating a plugin
When updating a CloudQuery plugin we need to check that the tables being collected are still available.
This can be done by running the `diff` script:

```bash
npm -w cloudquery-tables run diff
```

Commit message:

docs: Document needing to delete from `cloudquery_table_frequency` when removing a table

packages/cloudquery-tables/README.md, after:

# CloudQuery tables
This directory lists all tables collected with CloudQuery.
We do not collect tables by [wildcard matching](https://docs.cloudquery.io/docs/advanced/performance-tuning#use-wildcard-matching) 
to avoid automatically collecting any new tables introduced in a plugin update as this could dramatically increase our usage[^1].

## Adding a new table
To start collecting a new table:
1. Ensure the table is available in the version (see [`.env`](../../.env)) of the CloudQuery plugin used
2. Add the table to [`index.ts`](./src/index.ts)
3. Update or create a task to collect the table

> [!NOTE]
> There are unit tests checking only the tables listed in [`index.ts`](./src/index.ts) are collected.

## Removing a table
Before removing a table, ensure it is not used by any dashboards or other processes.

To stop collecting a table:
1. Remove the table from [`index.ts`](./src/index.ts)
2. Remove the table from the task that collected it
3. Add a [database migration](../common/prisma/migrations) to drop the table from the database and the row from `cloudquery_table_frequency`:

   ```sql
   DELETE FROM cloudquery_table_frequency WHERE table_name = '<table>';
   DROP TABLE IF EXISTS <table>;
   ```

[^1]: Per our contract, we have a finite number of rows that can be synced each month.

## Updating a plugin
When updating a CloudQuery plugin we need to check that the tables being collected are still available.
This can be done by running the `diff` script:

```bash
npm -w cloudquery-tables run diff
```
