## Interactive Monitor

The interactive Monitor attempts to spot and label new/unknown interactives. It is currently under active development.

There are a few ways of spotting an interactive

1. It has been generated from an interactive template, typically these repos will start with `interactive-atom-template`. Currently this part of the GitHub API is not exposed via cloudquery, so we are using the GitHub API directly until we can commit an upstream change to cloudquery itself.
2. Objects/artifacts generated by this repository have been spotted in S3. These repos have a `config.json`. The path field in that file, will correspond to prefixes in an S3 bucket. This indicates that an interactive has gone live.

These checks can take a while to run, and may brush up against rate limits more quickly, so for now, they live in their own lambda. When we are able to use cloudquery to search for templates, and once the numbers have come down a bit, we can move this into repocop proper.

### Running locally

On AWS, this lambda is triggered when SNS submits an event to it. Typically, for local development, we don't want a process that involved, so we run `assessRepo` directly, using `service-catalogue` as an example. This value is configurable in `src/run-locally.ts`.

The lambda is stage aware, and will not attempt to make any changes to repos outside of a `PROD` environment.

#### Steps

1. Navigate to the root of the `service-catalogue` repo
2. Run `./script/setup.sh`, and follow any prompts it gives you. We are particularly interested in the GitHub setup.
3. Run `npm run start -w interactive-monitor` and observe the output.
